\" Copyright (c) 2022, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt FT2NFDUMP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm ft2nfdump
.Nd convert flow-tools files to nfdump format.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Op Fl r Ar ftfile
.Fl w Ar nffile
.Op Fl Ar z
.Op Fl Ar j
.Op Fl Ar y
.Op Fl E
.Op Fl c Ar num
.Nm
.Op Fl Ar hV
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is the flow-tools converter program to read, convert and store netflow data, created
with the flow-tools package. It works either as a pipe filter or reads flow-tools data
directly from a file and exports nfdump data to a file.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r Ar ftfile
Read the flow-tools netflow data from file
.Ar ftfile
If this argument is missing,
.Nm
expects the data at
.Ar stdin
(pipe filter)
.It Fl w Ar nffile
Writes netflow data to
.Ar nffile
.It Fl z
Compress flows using LZO1X-1 compression. Fastest method
.It Fl y
Compress flows using LZ4 compression. Default if no other option is given.
.It Fl j
Compress flows using bz2 compression. Slowest but best compression.
.It Fl c Ar num
Limit the number of flows to the first
.Ar num
flow records.
.It Fl E
Additionally print flows to
.Ar stdout
This option allows you to check for the correct flow conversion and should not be needed
for normal operation.
.It Fl V
Print ft2nfdump version and exit.
.It Fl h
Print help text to stdout and exit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To convert a flow tools file into nfdump format:
.Dl % ft2nfdump -r <flow-tools-file> -z=lz4 -w <nfdump-file.nf>
.Dl % nfdump -r <nfdump-file.nf>
.Ed
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 on success and 255 otherwise.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfdump 1
