\" Copyright (c) 2022, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt NFANON 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfanon
.Nd anonymize the IP addresses 
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Fl r Ar path
.Op Fl w Ar nffile
.Fl K Ar key
.Op Fl v Ar level
.Op Fl W
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
anonymizes all IP addresses ( src, dst, next hop, router IP etc. ) in the netflow 
records using the CryptoPAn (Cryptography-based  Prefix-preserving Anonymization)
module. The key -K is used to initialize the Rijndael cipher. The key is either 
a 32 character string, or a 64 hex digit string starting with 0x. See 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Crypto-PAn for more information on CryptoPAn.
.Pp
The source specified by argument
.Fl r Ar path
may point to a single nfdump file or to a directory containing many nfdump files.
All files in a directory are processed recursively.
.Pp
If the output argument
.Fl w Ar nffile
is given, all anonymized records are written into that single file, even if the 
source is a directory. If no argument
.Fl w
is specified, 
.Nm
overwrites the original source file with the anonymized flow records.
If the source is a directory, each flow file is anonymized respectively.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r Ar path
Path to read flow files to anonymize. Path may point to a single file or a directory
containing many flow files.
.It Fl w Ar nffile
File name to write anonymized flow records to. If this argument is missing, the source
file name is taken, which means the original file is overwritten.
.It Fl K Ar key
.Ar key
is either a 32 character string, or a 64 char hex string starting with 0x. This key
is used to initialize the anonymizer.
.It Fl v Ar level
Set verbose level. A verbose level of 0 disables the actifivy spinner.
.It Fl W Ar num
Set the number of worker threads. The default depends on the number of cores online.
The value must not exceed the number of online CPU cores.

Worker threads are used to anonymize flow records in parallel.
.It Fl h
Print help text to stdout and exit.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
To create a random 64 character hex string you may use the following command:
.Dl % xxd -u -l 32 -p -c 64 /dev/urandom
.Ed
Use the resulting output as key, prepended with 0x as -K argument.
or
.Dl % openssl rand -hex 16
.Ed 
and use this output as argument for -K
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 on success and 255 otherwise.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfdump 1