.\" Copyright (c) 2026, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt NFMETA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfmeta
.Nd add per-block bloom-filter index and other metadata to nfdump flow files
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Fl r Ar path
.Op Fl w Ar outfile
.Op Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl r Ar path
.Fl w Ar outfile
.Op Fl h
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads one or more nfdump flow files and writes a new file in which each
flow data block is preceded by four
.Em META bloom filter records
that index the IP addresses contained in that block. Furthermore the time window
in the block header is updated.
.Pp
The per-block bloom filters and time window allow
.Xr nfdump 1
to skip entire data blocks during filtering,
providing a significant speedup for IP-address-based and/or time based queries
on large files or archives.
Four independent bloom filters are maintained per block:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
source IPv4 addresses
.It
destination IPv4 addresses
.It
source IPv6 addresses
.It
destination IPv6 addresses
.El
.Pp
The output file preserves the original compression method and level,
the file identity string, and all non-flow blocks (exporters, interface
names, NBAR records, etc.) unchanged.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r Ar path
Read flow data from
.Ar path ,
which may be a single nfdump file or a directory.
When a directory is given, all nfdump files in it are processed.
.It Fl w Ar outfile
Write all annotated flow data to
.Ar outfile .
All input files are merged into this single output file.
.Pp
If
.Fl w
is omitted,
.Nm
operates in in-place mode: each input file is processed into a temporary
file in the same directory, then atomically renamed over the original on
success.
The original file is left untouched if an error occurs during processing.
.It Fl h
Print a short usage summary and exit.
.El
.Sh IN-PLACE REPLACEMENT
When no
.Fl w
is given, each input file is replaced atomically: the annotated data is
written to a temporary file created by
.Xr mkstemp 3
in the same directory as the source.
Only on successful completion is the temporary file renamed over the
original with
.Xr rename 2 .
A crash or error during writing therefore leaves the original file intact
and the temporary file is removed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Annotate a single file in-place:
.Dl % nfmeta -r nfcapd.202501010000
.Pp
Annotate all files in a directory in-place:
.Dl % nfmeta -r /data/2025/01/01
.Pp
Annotate a single file and write to a separate output:
.Dl % nfmeta -r nfcapd.202501010000 -w nfcapd.202501010000.meta
.Pp
Merge an entire day of files into one combined annotated output:
.Dl % nfmeta -R /data/nfcapd.20250101* -w /data/day.meta.nf
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 on success and 255 on error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfdump 1 ,
.Xr nfcapd 1 ,
.Xr nfanon 1
