\" Copyright (c) 2022, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt NFREPLAY 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nfreplay
.Nd replay binary flow files as netflow v5, v9, IPFIX or nfdump native protocol to a remote host
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Fl r Ar flowfile
.Fl H Ar remotehost
.Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl S Ar Sourceaddr
.Op Fl j Ar mcastgroup
.Op Fl 4
.Op Fl 6
.Op Fl v Ar version
.Op Fl K Ns Op = Ns Ar passphrase | Ns @ Ns Ar keyfile
.Op Fl d Ar usec
.Op Fl b Ar buffsize
.Op Fl z Ar num
.Op Fl c Ar num
.Op Fl V
.Op Fl h
.Op Ar filter
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads binary flow files stored by any nfdump collector and sends the flow records
to a remote host or a multicast group.
.Pp
.Nm
sends the data as netflow v5, v9 or as the native nfdump protocol (version 250/251)
to the remote location.
.Pp
.Nm
accepts a filter to limit the flows to be sent. The filter syntax is equivalent to
nfdump.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl r Ar flowfile
Read input data from
.Ar flowfile.
.It Fl H Ar remotehost
Send all flows to this remote host. Accepts a symbolic name or a IPv4/IPv6 
IP address.
.It Fl j Ar mcastgroup
Join this multicast group and send all flows to this group host. Accepts a 
symbolic name or multicast IPv4/IPv6 IP address.
.It Fl p Ar port
Send all flows to this port on the remote side. Default is 9995.
.It Fl S Ar Sourceaddr
Use the specified source IP address to send the flows
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to send flows to a IPv4 address only. Can be used if the remote host has
an IPv4 and IPv6 address record.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to send flows to a IPv6 address only. Can be used if the remote host has
an IPv4 and IPv6 address record.
.It Fl v Ar version
Send flows using the specified wire protocol version.
Supported versions:
.Bl -tag -width "250" -compact
.It 5
NetFlow v5.
All extensions beyond the standard v5 record are silently dropped;
64-bit counters are truncated to 32 bits.
IPv6 flows are skipped.
.It 9
NetFlow v9 (default).
All nfdump extensions are exported as typed fields inside NF9 flowsets.
.It 10
IPFIX (RFC 7011).
Uses the same information element numbers as NetFlow v9 for all standard
fields.
The IPFIX message header (16 bytes) replaces the 20-byte v9 header:
version is 10, the
.Em Length
field carries the total message length in bytes, and the
.Em Sequence Number
counts cumulative data records rather than packets.
Template sets use set ID 2 (vs.\ 0 for v9).
The receiving
.Xr nfcapd 1
must support IPFIX (all nfdump 1.8.x builds do).
.It 250
Native nfdump protocol.
Flow records are forwarded verbatim as raw nfdump V4 records inside an
.Em nfd_header
UDP frame (version 250).
The receiving
.Xr nfcapd 1
must run the same nfdump 1.8.x release.
When
.Fl K
is also specified the packet is transparently encrypted and sent as
protocol version 251.
.El
.It Fl K Ns Op = Ns Ar passphrase | Ns @ Ns Ar keyfile
Encrypt forwarded flows using the nfdump encrypted UDP protocol (version 251).
Must be used together with
.Fl v No 250 .
.Pp
The passphrase is taken from the optional argument (
.Fl K Ns = Ns Ar passphrase ) ,
from a key file (
.Fl K Ns = Ns @ Ns Ar keyfile ) ,
or from an interactive prompt when
.Fl K
is given without an argument.
.Pp
A 32-byte session key is derived from the passphrase via Argon2id (interactive
cost).
Each UDP packet is independently encrypted with XChaCha20-Poly1305 using a
random 192-bit nonce; a 16-byte Poly1305 MAC is appended.
The receiving
.Xr nfcapd 1
must be started with the same passphrase via its
.Fl K
option.
.Pp
Available only when nfreplay is compiled with libsodium support.
.It Fl u Ar usec
Delay each record by
.Ar usec
mirco seconds, to avoid overrun on the remote host. Default is 10usec.
.It Fl B Ar buffsize
Set send buffer to
.Ar buffsize
size in bytes. Useful to buffer larger data transfers.
.It Fl z Ar num
Flows are sent with their "real distribution" acrross time (with a speed coefficient)
.Bl -item -compact
.It
.Fl z
1 : 5 minutes of records will be sent in 5 minutes.
.IT
.Fl
z
20 : 5 minutes of record will be sent in 5/20 = 0.25 minutes.
.El
.It Fl c Ar num
Limit number of records to send to the first 
.Ar num
flows.
.It Fl V
Print
.Nm 
version and exit.
.It Fl h
Print help text on stdout with all options and exit.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Bl -item -compact
.Nm
returns
.It
255 Initialization failed.
.It
254 Error in filter syntax.
.It
250 Internal error.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr nfdump 1
.Xr nfcapd 1