\" Copyright (c) 2023, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt SFCAPD 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm sfcapd
.Nd sflow collector for sflow version v2/v4 and v5
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm 
.Fl w Ar flowdir
.Op Fl C Ar config
.Op Fl z=<compress>
.Op Fl D
.Op Fl u Ar userid
.Op Fl g Ar groupid
.Op Fl S Ar num
.Op Fl t Ar interval
.Op Fl P Ar pidfile
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl d Ar device
.Op Fl I Ar ident
.Op Fl b Ar bindhost
.Op Fl f Ar flowfile
.Op Fl 4
.Op Fl 6
.Op Fl j Ar mcastgroup
.Op Fl R Ar repeater
.Op Fl A
.Op Fl B Ar buffsize
.Op Fl n Ar sourceparam
.Op Fl M Ar multiflowdir
.Op Fl i Ar metricrate
.Op Fl m Ar metricpath
.Op Fl e
.Op Fl x Ar command
.Op Fl W Ar workers
.Op Fl E
.Op Fl v
.Op Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
reads sflow data from the network and stores the records into binary formatted files. The sflow implementation
is based of sflowtool. The packet samples are converted into netflow compatible records.
.Pp
If you want to collect netflow data, please have a look at
.Ar nfcapd
which is also part of the nfdump tools. 
.Pp
Sflow is an industry standard developed by InMon Corporation.  For more information see http://sflow.org.
.Pp
.Nm 
is the twin of
.Ar nfcapd
and supports the same feature set. See also 
.Ar nfcapd(1)
for more details.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl w Ar flowdir
Set the flow directory to store the output files. If a sub hierarchy is specified with
.Fl S
the final directory is concatenated to flowdir/subdir.
.It Fl C Ar config
Reads additional configuration parameters from
.Ar config
file.
.Nm
tries to read the config file from the install default path 
.Ar $prefix/etc/
which may be overwritten by the environment variable
.Ar NFCONF
, which again is overwritten by this option
.Fl C.
If
.Fl C Ar none
is specified, then no config file is read, even if found in the search path.
.It Fl p Ar portnum
Set the port number to listen. Default port is 9995
.It Fl d Ar interface
Reads sflow data from an erspan encoded datalink. All traffic sent to this 
.Ar interface
is interpreted as sflow data stream.
.It Fl b Ar bindhost
Specifies the hostname/IPv4/IPv6 address to bind for listening. This can be an IP address or a hostname, 
resolving to a local IP address.
.It Fl 4
Forces
.Nm
to listen on IPv4 addresses only. Can be used together with -b if a hostname has IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.It Fl 6
Forces
.Nm
to listen on IPv6 addresses only. Can be used together with -b if a hostname has IPv4 and IPv6 addresses.
.It Fl J Ar mcastgroup
Join the specified IPv4 or IPv6 multicast group for listening.
.It Fl R Ar host[/port]
Enables the packet repeater. All incoming packets are sent additionally to another
.Ar host
and
.Ar port .
.Ar host
is either a valid IPv4/IPv6 address, or a symbolic hostname, which resolves to a valid IP address.
.Ar port
may be omitted and defaults to 9995. Note: As IPv4/IPv6 are accepted the host/port separator is '/'.
Up to 8 additional repeaters my be defined. Use this method to daisy chain collectors.
.It Fl A
Sets source address spoofing mode for the repeater. The source address of the repeated packages
is set to the original IP address. This needs
.Nm
to be started with root privileges. Please note, that source spoofing may be blocked by firewalls or
routers in your network.
.It Fl I Ar ident
Sets
.Ar ident
as identification string for the current source. This string is written into the output file to identify
the source. Default is 'none'. If you have multiple sources, see option
.Fl n
below.
.It Fl n Ar ident,IP,flowdir
Configures a netflow source identified by the string
.Ar ident, IP flowdir
If you have multiple sources per collector, add multiple
.Fl n
options. All exporters send the flows to the same port
.Fl p .
Do not mix single source configuration 
.Fl I
with multiple 
.Fl n
options. 
.It Fl M Ar flowdir
Set the flow directory for dynamic allocated exporters. New exporters are dynamically added when sending data.
All exporters send netflow data to the same port and IP. For each dynamically added source, a new sub directory
is created under 
.Ar flowdir
with the name of the IP address of the exporter. All '.' and ':" in IP addresses are replaced be '-'. 
.Fl D
Set daemon mode: fork to background and detach from terminal.
.Nm
terminates on signal TERM, INT or HUP.
.It Fl P Ar pidfile
Writes the running process ID into
.Ar pidfilw .
Use this option to integrate
.Nm
in start/stop files.
.It Fl u Ar userid
Drop privileges of running process to user
.Ar userid .
.Nm
needs to be started as user root.
.It Fl g Ar groupid
Drop privileges of running process to group
.Ar groupid .
.Nm
needs to be started as user root.
.It Fl B Ar bufflen
Sets the network socket input buffer to
.Ar bufflen
bytes. For high volume traffic it is recommended to raise this value to typically > 100k,
otherwise you risk to lose packets. The default is OS (and kernel) dependent.
.It Fl S Ar num
Adds an additional directory sub hierarchy to store the data files. The default is 0, no 
sub hierarchy, which means all files go directly into
.Ar flowdir .
The 
.Ar flowdir
is concatenated with the specified sub hierarchy format to create the final data directory.
The following hierarchies are defined:
.Bl -item -compact
.It
0 default     no hierarchy levels
.It
1 %Y/%m/%d    year/month/day
.It
2 %Y/%m/%d/%H year/month/day/hour
.It
3 %Y/%W/%u    year/week_of_year/day_of_week
.It
4 %Y/%W/%u/%H year/week_of_year/day_of_week/hour
.It
5 %Y/%j       year/day-of-year
.It
6 %Y/%j/%H    year/day-of-year/hour
.It
7 %Y-%m-%d    year-month-day
.It
8 %Y-%m-%d/%H year-month-day/hour
.El
.It Fl t Ar interval
Sets the time interval in seconds to rotate files. The default value is 300s ( 5min ).
The smallest available interval is 2s.
.It Fl z=lzo
Compress flow files with LZO1X-1 compression. Fastest compression.
.It Fl z=bz2
Compress flow files with bz2 compression. Slow but most efficient. It is not recommended 
to use bz2 in a real time capturing.
.It Fl z=lz4[:level]
Compress flow files with LZ4 compression. Fast and efficient. Optional level should be between 1..10
Changing the level results in smaller files but uses up more time to compress. Levels > 5 may need more
workers. See -W.
.It Fl z=zstd[:level]
Compress flow files with ZSTD compression. Fast and efficient. Optional level should be between 1..10
Changing the level results in smaller files but uses up more time to compress. Levels > 5 may need more
workers. See -W.
.It Fl W Ar num
Sets the number of workers to compress flows. Defaults to 4. Must not be greater than the number of
cores online. Useful for higher levels of compression for lz4 or zstd and large amount of flows per second.
.It Fl e
Sets auto-expire mode. At the end of every rotate interval
.Fl t
.Nm
runs an expire cycle to delete files according to max lifetime and max filesize as defined by nfexpire(1)
.It Fl x Ar command
At the end of every
.Fl t
interval and after the file rotate has completed, 
.Nm
runs the command
.Ar command .
The string for
.Ar command
may contain the following place holders, which are expanded before running:
.Bl -item -compact
.It
%f   File name of new data file including any sub hierarchy.
.It
%d   Top 
.Ar flowdir .
The full path of the new file is: %d/%f
.It
%t   Time slot string in ISO format e.g. 201107110845.
.It
%u   Time slot string in UNIX time format.
.It
%i   Identification string
.Ar ident
string supplied by
.Fl I
.El
.It Fl m Ar metricpath
Enables the flow metric exporter. Flow metric information is sent to the UNIX socket
.Ar metricpath
at the rate specified by
.Fl i
This option may by used to export flow metric information to other systems such as InfluxDB or Prometheus.
Please note: The flow metric does not include the full record. Only the flow statistics is sent.
.It Fl i Ar metricrate
Sets the interval for the flow metric exporter. This interval may be different from the file rotation
interval
.Ar t 
and is therefore independent from file rotation.
.It Fl v
Increase verbose level by 1. The verbose level may be increased for debugging purpose up to 3.
.It Fl E
Equal to -v -v -v. Print netflow records in block format to stdout. Please note, that not all elements
are printed, which are available in the flow record. To inspect all elements, use
.Ar nfdump
.Fl o Ar raw
This option is for debugging purpose only, to verify if incoming netflow data is processed correctly.
.It Fl V
Print
.Nm 
version and exit.
.It Fl h
Print help text on stdout with all options and exit.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 on success and 255 if initialization failed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
http://sflow.org
.Pp
https://sflow.org/developers/licensing.php
.Pp
https://github.com/sflow/sflowtool
.Pp
.Xr nfdump 1
.Xr nfcapd 1
.Xr nfpcapd 1
.Sh BUGS
No software without bugs! Please report any bugs back to me.
