.\" Copyright (c) 2024, Peter Haag
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"    this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"    and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its contributors may be
.\"    used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
.\"    specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt TORLOOKUP 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm torlookup
.Nd tor exit node lookup for IP addresses
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl H Ar torDBfile
.Ar iplist
.Nm
.Fl d Ar directory
.Fl w Ar torDBfile
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool to lookup tor exit node information and their valid time intervals.
You need to create the nfdump specific lookup database first, before using
.Nm .
.Pp
.Nm
is also used to create the nfdump formatted lookup database file from a bunch of tor archive files.
There is no account required to download and build the nfdump tor database.
See the section below for the building instructions.
.Pp
.Nm
accepts a list of IP addresses either on the command line, separated by spaces
or on
.Ar stdin
line by line. The IP address on each line can be embedded in a string separated be
spaces on the left and right, therefore it can read the piped output from other tools.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar directory
Use the tor archive files in
.Ar directory
to build the binary lookup database file. With this argument
.Nm
creates a new binary lookup database file.
.It Fl w Ar torDBfile
Name of the new lookup database file.
.It Fl H Ar torDBfile
Use the binary torDBfile as lookup database for the tor exit node lookups.
.El
.Pp
To specify the tor lookup database
.Nm
searches at the following places:
.Bl -bullet -compact
.It
If the default
.Ar nfdump(1)
configuration file exists, it reads the tag
.Ar tordb.path
.It
If the environment variable
.Ar NFTORDB
is set, use this setting as lookup database.
.It
The command line argument
.Fl H
.El
If multiple locations are given, the environment variable
.Ar NFTORDB
overwrites the nfdump config file and the command line option
.Fl H
overwrites the environment variable
.Ar NFTORDB .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Nm
returns 0 on success and 255 otherwise.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Nm
reads the environment variable
.Ar NFTORDB
.Sh EXAMPLES
The easiest way for creating or updating the binary lookup database is the use of the script
.Ar updateTorDB.sh
provided with all other nfdump files. The script takes a single integer argument. The integer argument
specifies for how many months back, you want to have the information available in the torDB. This means
you need to update the torDB and a regular basis, to have up to date information. Do not forget to
move the lookup database to the final location.
.El
.Pp
Lookup an IP with torlookup:
.Pp
.Dl % ./torlookup -H tordb_full.nf  178.218.144.18
.Dl Node: 178.218.144.18, last published: 2024-07-31 11:53:12, intervals: 7
.Dl 0 first: 2022-10-25 20:16:03, last: 2022-11-21 20:55:32
.Dl 1 first: 2022-12-19 23:16:38, last: 2022-12-28 18:17:01
.Dl 2 first: 2023-01-08 02:04:07, last: 2023-03-25 07:13:15
.Dl 3 first: 2023-03-29 05:08:45, last: 2023-09-12 17:05:01
.Dl 4 first: 2023-09-18 13:11:30, last: 2023-12-05 21:19:41
.Dl 5 first: 2024-01-05 03:05:32, last: 2024-03-22 21:08:22
.Dl 6 first: 2024-04-24 04:47:28, last: 2024-08-01 04:09:14
.Pp
.Nm
returns the number of intervals, the IP was registered as exit node limited by first/last timestamps.
.Pp
Pipe the output of an nfdump statistic to torlookup for tor exit node verification:
.Dl % nfdump -r nfcapd.202408011200 -s ip | torlookup -H tordb_full.nf
.Pp
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
If you use the tordb with
.Cm nfdump
to list flows and mark them as tor exit nodes, the IP address as well as
the flow start or flow end timestamp must fall into the approrpiate tor exit node interval.
In the pipe example above, torlookup does not care about timestamps.
.Pp
Use nfdump with the tordb:
.Dl % nfdump -H tordb.nf -r nfcapd.2024081200 -o tor
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Ar nfdump
has already builtin lookup options to decorate the text output with tor information. See tags %stor, %dtor
.Pp
.Xr nfdump 1
